# Project Focus


**Problem Statement:** Our goal is to solve the current problem students face with reserving a study room with the RIT Library Servicces. The current interface proves to be difficult and confusing when selecting a room to study in. Our motivation behind this is that as students we have had to se this site and have been left very confused at different points of the process. From the begining at the hompage, to the screen where users view what is available, users face diffculty navigating and locating how to book a room. Our team members have attempted to book a study room with the current interface and encountered challenges including navigation, location of buttons, view of schedule, selection of schedule, and more. These problems left many of our team members frustrated with the process, causing individuals to abandon the page all togther and therefore not have a quiet and isolated space to study; **"well-designed reservation portals significantly improve efficiency, usability, and user satisfaction in educational settings"** (Sayson et.al.2025). We believe students should be able to find and book a study with ease, allowing them to focus on studying and bettering their grades.


**Solution:** Our solution to mitigate the difficulty and confusion students currently face while booking a room with RIT Library services is to redesign the current interface. When navigating the homepage, the first location to create a reservation is in the menu side bar, but for users who are focused on the center of the screen, this may be difficult to find. The second option to reserving a room is to scroll all the way down on the homepage before finding an orange button that says "Create a Reservation". We agree the color of the button stands out against the white screen but the location is inconvinent and not easy to find. Once users click on this button they are navigated to a selection of spaces that can be reserved, one being a study room. Though the text says "Reserve a Study Room" users are unable to click on the text itself to complete this action. Once users are on the booking page, again the menu is on the left and users have to scroll to select parameters such as date, time, number of people, and room. We believe having the navigation bar horizontal to the center of the screen is easer to see and navigate. Another design flaw we noticed is once user selects a time slot and hit search, the arrangement showing what is available is very confusing to read and understand. The current look shows all available rooms and times even if they are not available for students to select, which is confusing for users deciding what is available to them. This is a problem we are going to solve by implementing a system that is easy to read and understand. The current interface causes students to abandon the page after facing confusion on how to select a room, and this can gravely affect a student's education and experience with RIT. Our plan is to create an interface that is intuitive, and user freindly, which will positively affect students' educational experience. 

**Steakholders:** Our steakholders with this project includes RIT Students as they are the most affected by this current system, and are the target of the current "Create a Reservation" flow on the website. As it is our goal to provide a better and more intuitive system, the students are our potentiel users. We want a system that fits their needs of a readable and easy to follow interface. Our plan to include the students in the process of redesigning is to test in iterations and have them go through the flow as we observe. We also plan to get initial feedback on how students feel about the current flow, which will allow us to include things we may not have thought of in the redesogn. RIT is also an important steakholder in this project, as it is the school's duty to provide this service to students. The goal for RIT is to have a booking system that doesn't frustrate or confuse students and student run clubs/organizations.


<b>Reference Citation:<b> 
<ul>
   <li>J. Online Reservation Inventory Systems in Higher Education: A Gap Analysis and Enhancement Framework with SMS Notification Support
  John Mikael Sayson,Jomel C. Reyes, Jeffric S. Pisueña 
*1,2,3 State University of Northern Negros, Old Sagay, Sagay City, Negros Occidental, Philippines
  International Journal of Research in Engineering and Science (IJRES) ISSN (Online): 2320-9364, ISSN (Print): 2320-9356 www.ijres.org Volume 13 Issue 7 ǁ July 2025 ǁ PP. 73-82
  <li>J. Tardivo et al., "Design Thinking in Practice: The Case for a Redesign to Improve a Reservation System in an Educational Environment," 2024 L Latin American Computer Conference (CLEI), Buenos Aires, Argentina, 2024, pp. 1-10, doi: 10.1109/CLEI64178.2024.10700258. keywords: {Surveys;Statistical analysis;User centered design;User experience;Software;Security;Interviews;Usability;Software engineering;Software development management;Evaluation;design thinking;software engineering;requirements engineering;user experience}, </li>
</ul>
