# Group 3 Project
**Team Members:** Aderonke Adelegan, Josh Samuel, Selassie Susuawu


**Stakeholders: RIT University, RIT Students, Clubs/Organizations** 

The current problem with reserving a study room in RIT Library Servicces website is that the current interface proves to be difficult and confusing when selecting a room to study in. The students who have had to see this site and have been exetremely confused at different points of the process. The navigation to locate how to reserve a room in begining of the homepage where users has face diffculty to find it. Our team members have attempted to book a study room with the current interface and encountered challenges including navigation, location of buttons, view of schedule, selection of schedule, and more. These problems left the users frustrated with the process, causing them to abandon the page all togther and therefore not have a quiet and isolated space to study; **"well-designed reservation portals significantly improve efficiency, usability, and user satisfaction in educational settings"** (Sayson et.al.2025). We believe students should be able to find and book a study with ease, allowing them to focus on studying and bettering their grades.

The direction for a solution is to reduce the difficulty and confusion that students currently face while booking a room with RIT Library services is to redesign the current interface. When navigating the homepage, the first location to create a reservation is in the menu side bar, but for users who are focused on the center of the screen, this may be difficult to find. The second option to reserving a room is to scroll all the way down on the homepage before finding an orange button that says "Create a Reservation". We agree the color of the button stands out against the white screen but the location is inconvinent and not easy to find. Once users click on this button they are navigated to a selection of spaces that can be reserved, one being a study room. Though the text says "Reserve a Study Room" users are unable to click on the text itself to complete this action. Once users are on the booking page, again the menu is on the left and users have to scroll to select parameters such as date, time, number of people, and room. We believe having the navigation bar horizontal to the center of the screen is easer to see and navigate. Another design flaw we noticed is once user selects a time slot and hit search, the arrangement showing what is available is very confusing to read and understand. The current look shows all available rooms and times even if they are not available for students to select, which is confusing for users deciding what is available to them. This is a problem we are going to solve by implementing a system that is easy to read and understand. The current interface causes students to abandon the page after facing confusion on how to select a room, and this can gravely affect a student's education and experience with RIT. Our plan is to create an interface that is intuitive, and user freindly, which will poaitively affect students' educational experience. 
